In this training session, we will
cover secure computation techniques,
data provenance for secure
computation, and provenance policies.
Secure computation techniques are methods that
use cryptography to securely compute functions
when some or all of the inputs should
remain secret to unauthorized parties.
Some examples of secure computation
techniques include multi-party computation,
secure enclaves, and zero-knowledge proofs.
As an example, consider a scenario in which Bob
would like to compute the average of his, Alice,
and Mallory's salaries. Alice and Mallory agree to
participate only if they can keep their individual
salaries secret. To do this, they can employ
a secure computation technique that will only
reveal the output of the average function to Bob
while keeping each of their input salaries secret.
They can each begin by encrypting their data
with a secret cryptographic key. Then, Bob,
Alice, and Mallory can each provide their
secret inputs to the secure average function,
which will cryptographically compute the average
of their salaries and reveal the result to Bob.
Now let's introduce data provenance
for secure computation techniques.
Data provenance is documentation describing
the history of data from its inception to a
slated state and can be used to assess the
integrity of data. It is represented as a
labeled directed acyclic graph and the
possible nodes for a provenance graph
of a secure computation in this study consist
of entities which can be: a contract entity,
a key entity, or a data entity; agents, can be
an account agent or node agent; and activities.
The labeled edges can be one of seven relations
which includes was attributed to, was derived
from, used, acted on behalf of, was associated
with, was informed by, and was generated by.
Contract entities represent the
logic that defines functions.
Key entities represent cryptographic keys and
all other data is represented by data entities.
Account agents represent users or organizations
that own entities and share some responsibility
for the execution of a secure computation, and
node agents represent secure computation engines.
Lastly, activities represent functions.
Now let's discuss each of the provenance edge
relations. The first relation is was attributed
to. For this edge, the source node can be any
entity and the destination node can be any agent.
This relation means that the agent was responsible
for the creation of the entity. In the following
example, the data entity salary b is the source
node and account agent Bob is the destination
node. The relation between these two nodes
indicate that salary b was attributed to Bob.
The next relation is was
derived from. For this edge,
both the source and destination nodes must
be entities. This relation means that the
destination entity influenced the creation of
the source entity. In the following example,
the data entity average salary is the source node
and data entity salary b is the destination node.
The relation between these two nodes indicate
that the average salary was derived from salary b.
The next relation is used. For this edge, the
source node is an activity and the destination
node is an entity. This relation means that
the activity used the entity as input. In
the following example, the activity average is
the source node and data entity salary b is the
destination node. The relation between these
two nodes indicate that average used salary b.
The next relation is acted on behalf of. For this
edge, the source node is a node agent, which is a
secure computation engine, and the destination
node is an account agent, which is a user.
This relation means that the node agent performed
a computation on behalf of the account agent. In
the following example, the node agent SCE is
the source node, and account agent Bob is the
destination node. The relation between these two
nodes indicate that SCE acted on behalf of Bob.
The next relation is was associated with. For
this edge, the source node is an activity,
which represents a function, and the destination
node is a node agent, which represents a secure
computation engine. This relation means that
the activity was executed by the node agent.
In the following example, the
activity average is the source node,
and the node agent SCE is the destination node.
The relation between these two nodes indicate
that average was associated with SCE.
The next relation is was generated
by. For this edge, the source node
is an entity and the destination node is
an activity. This relation means that the
entity was produced as output by the
activity. In the following example,
the data entity average salary is the source node
and the activity average is the destination node.
The relation between these two nodes indicates
that average salary was generated by average.
The provenance nodes and relations can be
combined to form provenance graphs. Let's
walk through a partial provenance graph for the
generation of average salary. This graph consists
of six entities. Salary m, salary a, and salary
b are all data entities. Average contract is a
contract entity and represents a contract that
provides instructions for how the average is to
be computed. KeySCE is a key entity and represents
a cryptographic key that secures the computation.
And average salary is a data entity. This graph
contains four agents: Mallory, Alice, and Bob
are all account agents, and SCE, which represents
a secure computation engine, is a node agent.
And lastly, the graph contains one activity
which represents the average function
In this graph, salary M was attributed to Mallory,
salary A was attributed to Alice, and salary B was
attributed to Bob. Average contract and keySCE was
attributed to SCE and SCE acted on behalf of Bob.
The average activity used salary M, salary A,
salary B, average contract, keySCE as
input, and was associated with SCE.
The average salary was generated by the
average activity and was derived from salary M,
salary A salary B, average contract, and keySCE.
And lastly, the average salary
was attributed to Bob and SCE,
resulting in the final provenance graph.
Now we will introduce provenance policies.
Provenance policies are constraints placed
on provenance graphs to either verify
that data was generated as expected
or to detect when data was manipulated in
an unexpected way. Provenance policies are
designed to prevent the consumption of untrusted
data. Going back to our average salary example,
Bob can verify that the average salary was
generated as expected by specifying provenance
policies that can be automatically checked
when given the appropriate provenance graph.
In this study, you will use two languages and
systems to specify provenance policies that
will be evaluated on provenance graphs. These
languages and systems include ProProv and Rego.